It’s so very joyous to see you all here
assembled together. I’ve to thank you very
much for getting such a nice place as this
Shudy Camp; I’ve given it a new name, Shoody
Camp meaning cleansing camp
which is such an ancient building. It has
gone through various stages of history and
has kept the mark of all these times and now
you have to build up the future on this land,
on this spot, in this building.
Also I’m thankful to you for buying such
a nice comfortable car for Me. I thought I
was supposed to buy but everybody said, “No,
we are supposed to buy it for You, Mother.”
This is the first house that is in My name,
first house I own and this is the first car
I have owned in My name. I’m so proud that
My children have bought it for Me. They have,
with their love and affection have bought
this huge big place as well as the car for
My dwelling as well as for My comfort.
When we come on this earth, when the incarnations
descend they don’t need a building at all;
they have a dwelling that’s  face
the sky and the clouds are the curtains and
grass is their bed and all the directions
are the worms. But when they reside in the
heart of their children, in the heart of their
bhaktas, the heart of their devotees, then
these beautiful hearts create something so
artistic
and then re-creates according to his own
expression of love.
This is what you have done by buying this
house and by buying this car, amen. I don’t
need any conveyance, you know that. But in
the modern times the conveyance has changed.
It started with a little mouse, changing into
a car, maybe an aeroplane. But actually what
is My conveyance is? My conveyance is your
heart, only through your heart I can be carried.
There’s no other way out. Your sincerity,
your devotion, your love, that can only carry
your Mother and this is a symbol of that.
Matter has only one facility that you can
express your heart through these material
things. Your nobility, your graciousness,
your generosity is expressed through matter.
I do that Myself and now you have done it
this time; I’m thankful to you. As you know
very well that I cannot be contained into
anything, neither in this house, neither in
England nor in India, nor in the whole universe.
I’m rather too large, but of course in your
heart, I can. And that is how your heart should
be. For Me, a comfortable place like a lotus
to relax, to realize My own love. When all
these things happen, so much adoration
is poured on your Mother you just get boundless;
you spread out, you reach such spots in the
whole of humanity, everywhere I can feel the
worship, the enjoyment of millions of millions
who died before, who are there and who will
be there. All this expands you into a very
subtle sensibility of feeling every suffering
soul, every tortured person, every unhappy
being, every seeker, every Sahaja Yogi all
over the world. In you I see their reflection.
In the same way you all have to expand, expand
yourself, that’s very important for England.
As I said, England is the heart and the spirit
resides in the heart but spirit moves out
of the heart sometimes, it does. And is reflected
through the soul and recently I told in Italy
that Italy is the soul. That’s why you have
to go by a special plane to Italy to reflect.
But now Italians have come here. The soul
had to come to the spirit.
So let us not be materialistic, for a change.
Let us not be mundane but work out your spiritual
hankering through its fulfillment. You have
seen, so many in India, Ajanta, which was
built in eleven centuries, which is built
in a range of half-circular mountains. The
stones were hewed from top to bottom and the
height of some of these is more than eighty
feet, the caves and in eleven centuries how
they worked it out, that first they made a
general plan of it. Then they made the division
of it, like that it went on till it came to
the detailed working. Generations after generations,
in the praise of Lord Buddha whom they had
not seen, they had never known, only in dedication
to Him.
They worked in that jungle, in that forest,
day in and day out, for eleven centuries to
build that Ajanta where even their names are
not there; no one knows who were responsible,
who did it. Without leaving any traces, just
for their emancipation, of expression of their
adoration for Lord Buddha because He talked
of self-realization; only talked, didn’t
give. For eleven generations or may be more
because in one century there are at least
two generations; maybe twenty-one generations
worked, one after another to build that huge
thing of seven miles. And the whole thing
is so smooth, like this, like the tent that
the roof is extremely smooth, as if a tent
has been put up, and even there is this kind
of a looseness, that you can see in this tent
and when the wind blows, how the cloth goes
into folds with all the beautiful paintings
on them, is shown. What was it that made it?
Who was the one who guided them? They had
never seen Buddha.
We have got realization, we’re much higher
people than all of them. We have much more
capacities. Now in Delhi they have discovered
that Sahaja Yogis have a greater resistance
for digestion, skin resistance and when they’re
in thoughtless awareness there are no electrical
charges in the brain. So their brains are
preserved and are going to be very dynamic
for a long time. It’s going to be published
on the eighth of this month.
So one has to know that we are born in a very
dynamic time, historical times. Never before
in history we had so many Sahaja Yogis. This
is the time of the greatest revolution, greatest
evolution
and this is the time you’re going to achieve
something that was never achieved before.
Are we capable of calling ourselves Sahaja
Yogis?
August is a very great month, specially for
Me. Today is also a very great day, I should
say. In the month of August, we got our independence,
as you know, ninth of August, in India. But
before that, in 1942, on the third of August,
Mahatma Gandhi declared the movement of “Quit
India,” of the British from India. And today
on the same day you have welcomed Me in the
heart of the heart, Shoody Camp. Eighth of
August, as you know, is the day when Rabindranath
Tagore was born and in our college we celebrated
eighth of August and I remember it very clearly.
And the ninth
of August we all went on a strike.
In science college I remember I was a young
girl of nineteen years and My professsor and
My principal still remember all those things
that happened. I was standing alone and behind
Me were all the students who were doing the
strike. When the military came in and they
tried to threaten and do all kinds of things
to Me. I said, “No, we’ll not enter into
the college, today is the strike day.” When
My principal came and he was very happy and
they removed him for that. He has written
a very nice letter to Me when he met Me the
other day, when he saw Me as Mataji Nirmala
Devi. It was a letter worth really remembering.
So this is the month of a very big change
and revolution in India. But with that one
has to remember that “Quit India” movement
started all right and all kinds of sacrifices
were done, people sacrificed so much that
you cannot imagine how much people have to
sacrifice. As today in South Africa, people
are sacrificing so much for their freedom,
much worse than in India, much worse. People
sacrificed and sacrificed. As a result of
those sacrifices, we got our independence
and we have to thank the Labour government
for that. If Mr. Attlee was not chosen by
the Divine we would never have got our independence.
We got our independence and graciously English
left us, that was something really great of
them, in those days to do it. But that independence
was just a political independence, political
freedom but today you have the ultimate, ultimate
freedom. You got the freedom of your spirit
which is not attached to anything, which is
not anything but the spirit, which is absolute,
which is neither English nor Indian nor Australian,
which is not this house, which is not anything
but the spirit itself, the complete freedom
you’ve got. In that freedom you have to
rise. Still we have considerations of brothers,
sisters, children, wife; no, you are the spirit.
You have to sacrifice. For Me, nothing is
like sacrificing because I don’t know what
am I sacrificing. In the same way what we
call sacrifice at that stage should be Sahaj
now for us, Sahaj. That time it was a sacrifice
but today it should be Sahaj. We’ve gained
so much in Sahaja Yoga. In that freedom fight,
they gained nothing. But what are we sacrificing?
Just our ego and this is what English have
to come up to. “What have I sacrificed for
Sahaja Yoga? What have I done for Sahaja Yoga?
How much I have exploited it?” We must think
it over; it’s very important.
You left an empire; India was the gem. On
that earning you are still having your doles
today. Such a rich country you left, richest
of all in the whole world was India. You don’t
know how rich India was and is today even
if you see to it. And you left that country,
you are a small country. You don’t have
any riches as such, nothing, but in your greatness
you left it. Nobody will leave like that.
Your forefathers did it. It’s a great sacrifice
I think, from the worldly point of view.
So we have to now understand that, we must
have confidence in ourselves in such a way
that whatever we sacrifice, what do we sacrifice?
In this maya you sacrifice something and how
much you get out of it. Just the maya is testing
you.
So for today you have sacrificed a lot, given
lot of money to have this house, and I know
that. You’ll be amazed I’m not worried
about My own money, how much it is spent here
and there. But for your money I’m very hard
on all of them and the leaders might be thinking
I’m so miserly but this is public money,
not only public, this is the blood of My children.
So again on this great occasion, this joyous
occasion, in the month of August we’re having
this beautiful place now and with this one
we’ll have many in future. I hope we’ll
occupy the whole place quite a lot. Already
the neighbors must have run away
and we’re going to manage somehow or other
to purchase all these places here. You have
to desire it. Behind every desire there has
to be the action and in that action you have
to sacrifice. But if you say it laboriously,
“I’m sacrificing, sacrificing,” it’s
not a divine thing to do, should be done in
such a joyous way.
I hope now, today you will all promise Me
that every morning you’re going to meditate,
every morning, everyone, no excuses, you’re
not going to excuse yourself. Unless and until
you meditate I cannot do what I want to do
in Shoody Camp. No laziness, no excuses, no
telling lies, not deceiving yourself; all
of you are going to meditate, that is one
promise. And the rest I’ll look after, the
rest I will look after. You’ll just decide
to meditate everyday, everyday. That’s one
more thing you have to give Me is the promise
that you will all meditate everyday in the
morning time and evening time if you do foot-soaking
is good for you, not for Me. Everything’s
so spontaneous, so beautiful, how it has worked
out.
Now to end it up I’ll give you a very good
example of manifestation of another miracle
that has taken place, how it works out. You
know we have bought a plot of land of forty-two
acres in Vaitarna for the education of children.
And the Bombay people went there and planted
some three hundred trees and also they had
a paddy farming started there. Before the
school starts they thought something should
be done about it. But the villagers around
would bring their cattle, their cows, and
their goats and all of them to graze in that
ground. So they got very much worried and
the Sahaja Yogis in Vaitarna also said that,
“You shouldn’t this, this is Mother’s
land.” Again they had a meeting of the villagers,
they told, “This is Mother’s land, you
better not come here.” They wouldn’t listen
to them.
And one day suddenly in the daytime a very
big tiger appeared, very big tiger, of a very
large size. And he started roaring and jumping
all over, running all over the place whatever
we had purchased and all that. And everyday
he did it for five days and they got such
a fright that they took away their lock, stock
and barrel, as you say, and everything. Their
cattle and their everything they took away,
tied it together and all of them. They’ve
also removed their huts, I’m told, they’re
so frightened. And this tiger is nobody else
but is Bhairavanathji. He does that and you
know that He’s St. George who’s working
so very hard. Nobody has seen a tiger there
the last thirty years and that area is not
known at all for tigers and such a big tiger,
they said.
So thank you very much, may God bless you.
Now if you want to give Me flowers you can
do that and also I would request you to have
your food, it’s very late already. And do
you want to have some music or something after
that? You can have, what’s the harm? You
could have your food here if you like. It’s
quite a warm place isn’t it? Is there a
heater here? No? You all should freeze in
this place.
There are so many sayings in English language,
if you just pay attention to it. One of them
is: oranges and lemons, sold for a penny;
that’s for our, you see, treatment, with
the lemons we have. And there’s another
one: London Bridge is falling down, suggesting
that what we believe into, all these bridges
is not important. The bridge with God has
to be built and expressing that material things
should fall down. And then: Humpty Dumpty
sat on a wall. There are so many things that
explain that people knew what it was going
to be.
It’s so surprising that there’s a poet
called Lewis. He has written, I don’t know
if you have read it or not, have you brought
that? I wish you had. About the procession
he saw in India of you people, you haven’t
got it? How many of you have read that? That’s
very exclusive! Surprising, nobody has that.
All right, tomorrow. Remember all that you
have to get from there. Mr. Djamel has to
bring many things, I think.
Also there’s a Commonwealth meeting going
on, better give bandhan, specially to our
Indian Prime Minister who is a realized soul
and they were telling Me that all the terrorists
have joined together to kill him. And our
High Commissioner also, his wife told Me that
all the terrorists have arrived.
Do you know in London, who rules? St. George.
How dare anybody touch that. St. George rules
there, so we don’t need a tiger. It’s
all right, He’s already there, settled down.
Thank you very much, all these and I went
to…, beautiful, all right. These are all
wild flowers, you’ll be amazed the country
has such an abundance of these wonderful flowers
and so unique. See this one is Ganesha’s
flower here, see this one is the wild flower,
you like to see? Such beautiful flowers, see
this one, two colors of Ganesha. And they
last and last, you see, they don’t need
much water, nothing, keep them and they last
and last. Exactly four. See how beautiful
they are. It’s beautiful.